--- PAGE 1 ---
Agent Skills for Large Language Models: Architecture,
Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward
Renjun Xu
ReDiscovery
Hangzhou, China
rux@zju.edu.cn
Yang Yan
Westlake University
Hangzhou, China
yanyang@westlake.edu.cn
Abstract
The transition from monolithic language models to modular,
skill-equipped agents marks a defining shift in how large lan-
guage models (LLMs) are deployed in practice. Rather than
encoding all procedural knowledge within model weights,
agent skills—composable packages of instructions, code, and
resources that agents load on demand—enable dynamic capa-
bility extension without retraining. It is formalized in a para-
digm of progressive disclosure, portable skill definitions, and
integration with the Model Context Protocol (MCP). This
survey provides a comprehensive treatment of the agent
skills landscape, as it has rapidly evolved during the last
few months. We organize the field along four axes: (i) ar-
chitectural foundations, examining the SKILL.md specifica-
tion, progressive context loading, and the complementary
roles of skills and MCP; (ii) skill acquisition, covering rein-
forcement learning with skill libraries (SAGE), autonomous
skill discovery (SEAgent), and compositional skill synthesis;
(iii) deployment at scale, emphasizing computer-use agents
(CUAs) while situating them alongside software-engineering,
web, tool-use, and embodied-agent benchmarks; and (iv) se-
curity, where recent empirical analyses report that 26.1% of
community-contributed skills contain vulnerabilities, moti-
vating our proposed Skill Trust and Lifecycle Governance
Framework—a four-tier, gate-based permission model that
maps skill provenance to graduated deployment capabili-
ties. We identify seven open challenges—from cross-platform
skill portability to capability-based permission models—and
propose a research agenda for realizing trustworthy, self-
improving skill ecosystems. Unlike prior surveys that broadly
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies
are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights
for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must
be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific
permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
AgentSkills ’26, San Jose, USA
© 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed
to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2602.12430
cover LLM agents or tool use, this work focuses specifi-
cally on the emerging skill abstraction layer and its implica-
tions for the next generation of agentic systems. An accom-
panying collection of agent skills resources is available at
https://github.com/scienceaix/agentskills.
CCS Concepts: • Computing methodologies →Machine
learning; Natural language processing; • Software and its
engineering →Software development techniques.
Keywords: Agent skills, large language models, tool use,
computer-use agents, Model Context Protocol, skill libraries,
agentic AI, progressive disclosure, security
ACM Reference Format:
Renjun Xu and Yang Yan. 2026. Agent Skills for Large Language
Models: Architecture, Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward.
In Proceedings of ACM CAIS 2026 Workshop AgentSkills (AgentSkills
’26). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2602.12430
1
Introduction
The capabilities of large language models have expanded
dramatically, yet their utility as autonomous agents remains
constrained by a fundamental tension: general-purpose mod-
els possess broad knowledge but lack the specialized proce-
dural expertise that real-world tasks demand. Fine-tuning
addresses this partially, but at significant cost and with lim-
ited composability. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
provides external knowledge, but the retrieved passages are
passive—they cannot prescribe multi-step workflows, bun-
dle executable code, or adapt the agent’s tool permissions at
runtime.
Agent skills resolve this tension by introducing a modular,
filesystem-based abstraction that equips agents with domain-
specific expertise on demand. In this paradigm, a skill is not
a model or a prompt template, but a self-contained package:
a structured instruction file (SKILL.md), optional scripts, ref-
erence documents, and assets, organized in a directory that
the agent discovers, loads, and follows when relevant tasks
arise [37]. The distinction from traditional tools is architec-
tural: tools execute and return results, whereas skills prepare
the agent to solve a problem by injecting procedural knowl-
edge, modifying execution context, and enabling progressive
disclosure of information.
arXiv:2602.12430v4  [cs.MA]  2 Jun 2026


--- PAGE 2 ---
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
Xu and Yan
Anthropic formalized this concept in October 2025 with
the launch of Agent Skills across Claude’s product surface [7],
followed by its release as an open standard in December
2025 [3]. Within four months, the anthropics/skills repos-
itory accumulated over 62,000 GitHub stars, partner-built
skills from Atlassian, Figma, Canva, Stripe, and Notion en-
tered a curated directory, and structurally identical architec-
tures were independently adopted by other frontier model
providers.
This rapid convergence reflects a broader recognition: as
agents move from research prototypes to production de-
ployments, the industry needs standardized mechanisms for
packaging, distributing, and governing procedural exper-
tise. The parallel maturation of the Model Context Protocol
(MCP)—an open standard for connecting agents to external
data and tools, donated to the Linux Foundation’s Agentic AI
Foundation in December 2025 [5]—provides the complemen-
tary infrastructure layer. Together, skills and MCP define an
emerging agentic stack in which skills supply the “what to
do” and MCP supplies the “how to connect.”
This survey is the first to provide a focused treatment
of the agent skills paradigm. While excellent surveys ex-
ist on LLM agents broadly [18, 20], tool use [23], and GUI
agents [12, 38], none specifically examines the skill abstrac-
tion layer that has emerged as a unifying architectural prim-
itive. Our contributions are:
1. A systematic analysis of the Agent Skills architecture, in-
cluding progressive disclosure, the SKILL.md specification,
and its relationship to MCP (Section 3).
2. A taxonomy of skill acquisition methods spanning rein-
forcement learning, autonomous exploration, composi-
tional synthesis, and human-authored knowledge packag-
ing (Section 4).
3. A critical assessment of deployment settings for skills,
emphasizing the computer-use agent (CUA) stack while
situating it within broader software-engineering, web,
function-calling, and embodied-agent evaluation contexts
(Section 5).
4. The first consolidated treatment of agent skill security,
synthesizing three concurrent empirical studies, and an
original Skill Trust and Lifecycle Governance Frame-
work that maps acquisition provenance through verifi-
cation gates to graduated deployment permissions (Sec-
tion 6).
5. An articulation of seven open challenges and a research
agenda for the field (Section 7).
2
Background and Scope
2.1
From Prompt Engineering to Skill Engineering
The evolution toward agent skills can be understood as a
progression through three paradigms of LLM capability ex-
tension. Prompt engineering (2022–2023) demonstrated that
carefully crafted instructions could elicit impressive zero-
shot and few-shot behaviors, but prompts are ephemeral,
non-modular, and difficult to version or share. Tool use and
function calling (2023–2024) enabled models to invoke ex-
ternal APIs, but each tool is atomic—a single function with
defined inputs and outputs. Tools execute and return; they
do not reshape the agent’s understanding of a task.
Skill engineering (2025–present) introduces a higher-order
abstraction. A skill is a bundle that can include instructions,
workflow guidance, executable scripts, reference documen-
tation, and metadata, all organized to be dynamically loaded
when relevant. The key insight is that many real-world tasks
require not a single tool call but a coordinated sequence of
decisions informed by domain-specific procedural knowl-
edge. A PDF-processing skill, for example, does not merely
expose a “fill form” function; it teaches the agent how to
approach PDF manipulation, which libraries to use, what
edge cases to handle, and what code to execute [37].
2.2
Relationship to Prior Work
Several foundational works anticipated the skill paradigm.
Voyager [29] introduced a skill library for embodied agents
in Minecraft, where LLM-generated programs were stored
and composed to solve increasingly complex tasks. CRE-
ATOR [21] and Large Language Models as Tool Makers [9]
explored the idea that LLMs could create their own tools.
Toolformer [24] demonstrated self-taught tool use. How-
ever, these works focused on model-generated skills in con-
strained environments. The Agent Skills paradigm, by con-
trast, emphasizes human-authored, portable, and governed
skill packages designed for production deployment across
heterogeneous agent platforms.
2.3
Scope and Methodology
In this survey, we systematically searched arXiv, ACL Anthol-
ogy, NeurIPS/ICML/ICLR proceedings, and official technical
publications using queries centered on “agent skills,” “skill
library,” “LLM tool use,” “computer-use agent,” and “Model
Context Protocol.” We explicitly exclude earlier surveys’ cov-
erage of general LLM agent architectures and broad tool-use
taxonomies, focusing instead on the skill abstraction layer
and its immediate ecosystem. Because skill packaging has
first matured in software-facing agent environments, our
deployment section gives CUAs extended treatment; never-
theless, we treat this as a representative stress case rather
than the full boundary of the paradigm.
3
Architectural Foundations
3.1
The SKILL.md Specification
At its core, a skill is a directory containing a SKILL.md file
with YAML frontmatter that specifies a name and description.
The agent pre-loads only this metadata—typically a few
dozen tokens—into its system prompt at startup, enabling


--- PAGE 3 ---
Agent Skills for Large Language Models: Architecture, Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
large skill libraries without context penalty. The full body of
the SKILL.md file contains procedural instructions that are
loaded only when the skill is triggered. Additional resources
(scripts, reference docs, assets) reside in subdirectories and
are loaded on demand [37].
USER QUERY
"Fill out this PDF"
SKILL ROUTER
Matches Intent
Semantic Match
LEVEL 1: METADATA (Always Loaded)
~30 tokens / skill
name: pdf-processing
description: Extract text and fill forms...
YAML frontmatter pre-loaded in system prompt.
TRIGGER
LEVEL 2: INSTRUCTIONS (Loaded on Trigger)
200 - 2k tokens
# PDF Processing Skill
def main(file_path):
"""Orchestrates the workflow"""
import pdf_tools...
Injects full SKILL.md body and
modifies execution context.
ON DEMAND
LEVEL 3: RESOURCES (Dynamic Loading)
Unbounded Cost
Scripts
.py / .sh
Reference
docs / pdfs
Assets
templates
Only loaded if explicitly called
by Level 2 instructions.
Context Window Consumption
Figure 1. Progressive disclosure architecture of Agent Skills.
Information is loaded in three stages to minimize context
window consumption while maintaining access to arbitrarily
deep procedural knowledge. Token estimates are approxi-
mate per-skill averages; adapted from Zhang, Lazuka, and
Murag [37].
This three-level progressive disclosure, summarized in
Figure 1, is the defining architectural innovation. As Zhang
et al. articulate: building a skill is “like putting together an
onboarding guide for a new hire” [37]. Level 1 serves as
a table of contents; Level 2 provides the chapter content;
Level 3 supplies the technical appendices.
3.2
Skill Execution Lifecycle
When a user request matches a skill’s description, the agent
triggers a two-phase execution. First, the skill’s instructions
and any required resources are injected into the conversation
context as a hidden (meta) message—visible to the model but
not rendered in the user interface. Second, the agent’s exe-
cution context is modified: pre-approved tools (e.g., specific
bash commands, file read/write permissions) are activated,
and the agent proceeds with the enriched context to com-
plete the task.
Critically, skill execution modifies the agent’s preparation,
not its output directly. This distinguishes skills from function
calls, where the tool produces a result. A skill reshapes what
the agent knows and can do before it generates its response.
3.3
The Agentic Stack: Skills and MCP
The Model Context Protocol (MCP), launched in Novem-
ber 2024 [2] and donated to the Agentic AI Foundation in
December 2025 [5], provides a complementary layer. MCP
standardizes how agents connect to external data sources and
tools via a JSON-RPC 2.0 protocol with three primitives: tools
(model-invoked functions), resources (application-controlled
data), and prompts (user-invoked templates) [19].
Skills and MCP are not competing standards but orthog-
onal layers of an emerging agentic stack (Table 1). A skill
might instruct the agent to use a particular MCP server, spec-
ify how to interpret its outputs, and define fallback strategies
if the connection fails. Skills provide the procedural intelli-
gence; MCP provides the connectivity.
3.4
Advanced Tool Use Integration
Anthropic’s November 2025 release of Advanced Tool Use
features [6] introduced three mechanisms that deepen the
skill–tool integration: (1) a Tool Search Tool that enables pro-
grammatic discovery of relevant tools from large registries,
with the cited technical report reporting token-overhead re-
ductions of up to 85% relative to pre-loading tool definitions;
(2) Programmatic Tool Calling, where the model executes
tools via code rather than structured JSON, with reported
accuracy improving from 79.5% to 88.1% on Opus 4.5 in the
reported benchmark; and (3) Tool Learning, which allows
the model to study tool documentation and improve invoca-
tion quality. These features address a practical bottleneck: as
skill libraries grow, the agent needs efficient mechanisms to
discover and invoke the right tools within a skill’s workflow.
4
Skill Acquisition and Learning
A central question in the skills paradigm is how skills are
created, refined, and composed. We identify four distinct
acquisition modalities, summarized in Table 2.
4.1
Human-Authored Skills
The most immediately impactful acquisition modality is di-
rect human authoring. Anthropic’s framework is deliber-
ately designed to make this accessible: a skill can be as sim-
ple as a Markdown file with a few dozen lines of instruc-
tions [37]. The skill-creator meta-skill within Claude
Code can scaffold a new skill from a natural-language de-
scription, generating the directory structure, SKILL.md, and
bundled scripts. Enterprise deployments at companies such
as Atlassian, Canva, and Sentry have produced production-
grade skills that encode proprietary workflows.
The December 2025 partner directory launch [7] estab-
lished a curation pipeline: partners submit skills that are re-
viewed for security and quality before inclusion. This model
mirrors app store governance but with significantly lower
barrier to entry, since skills are essentially structured docu-
ments rather than executable applications.
4.2
Reinforcement Learning with Skill Libraries
SAGE (Skill Augmented GRPO for self-Evolution) [31] repre-
sents the most rigorous approach to learning skills through
reinforcement. The key innovation is Sequential Rollout:


--- PAGE 4 ---
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
Xu and Yan
Table 1. Comparison of Agent Skills and MCP as complementary layers of the agentic stack.
Dimension
Agent Skills
MCP
Primary role
Procedural knowledge
Tool connectivity
Unit
Directory w/ SKILL.md
Server w/ endpoints
Loaded by
Agent on trigger
Client on config
Modifies
Context + permissions
Available tools/data
Persistence
Filesystem-based
Session-based
Spec status
Open std (Dec 2025)
Linux Found. (Dec 2025)
Table 2. Taxonomy of skill acquisition methods for LLM agents (2025–2026). Performance metrics are from the original papers
on their respective benchmarks.
Method
Representative Work
Mechanism
Benchmark
Key Result
Human-authored
Anthropic Skills [37]
Manual SKILL.md
Claude products
62k+ GitHub stars
RL with skill library
SAGE [31]
GRPO + sequential
rollout
AppWorld
+8.9% SGC, −59% tokens
Autonomous explo-
ration
SEAgent [28]
Curriculum + world
model
OSWorld (5 apps)
11.3%→34.5% success
Structured skill base
CUA-Skill [10]
Parameterized exec.
graphs
WindowsAgentArena
57.5% SOTA
Compositional syn-
thesis
Agentic Proposing [13]
Skill library + GoT
agent
AIME 2025
91.6% (30B solver)
Skill compilation
Li 2026 [15]
Multi-agent
→
single-agent
Multiple
Phase transition found
rather than training on isolated tasks, the agent is deployed
across chains of similar tasks, with skills generated in earlier
tasks preserved and available for reuse in subsequent ones. A
Skill-integrated Reward combines outcome-based verification
with an additional signal rewarding high-quality, reusable
skill creation.
On AppWorld, SAGE achieves 72.0% Task Goal Comple-
tion and 60.7% Scenario Goal Completion—an 8.9% absolute
improvement over baseline GRPO without skill libraries—
while requiring 26% fewer interaction steps and 59% fewer
generated tokens. This efficiency gain is particularly signifi-
cant for production deployment, where token consumption
directly translates to cost.
4.3
Autonomous Skill Discovery
SEAgent [28] addresses a complementary challenge: can
agents autonomously discover skills for previously unseen
software? The framework introduces a World State Model for
stepwise trajectory assessment and a Curriculum Generator
that produces increasingly complex tasks from a continu-
ously updated software guidebook memory. A specialist-to-
generalist training strategy integrates insights from domain-
specific agents into a unified model. On five novel software
environments in OSWorld, SEAgent improves success rates
from 11.3% to 34.5%—a 23.2 percentage point gain over the
competitive UI-TARS baseline.
4.4
Structured Skill Bases
CUA-Skill [10] takes a knowledge-engineering approach,
encoding human computer-use expertise as parameterized
execution graphs and composition graphs. Each skill has typed
parameters, preconditions, and composability rules. The
CUA-Skill Agent supports dynamic skill retrieval, argument
instantiation, and memory-aware failure recovery. On Win-
dowsAgentArena, this achieves a state-of-the-art 57.5% suc-
cess rate, substantially outperforming approaches that lack
structured skill representations.
4.5
Compositional Skill Synthesis
Agentic Proposing [13] demonstrates that skills can be com-
posed dynamically during problem-solving. A specialized
agent selects and composes modular reasoning skills from a
library, modeling problem synthesis as a goal-driven process.
The paper reports that a 30B parameter solver using this
approach achieves 91.6% on the AIME 2025 mathematical
competition benchmark; within the scope of the cited evalu-
ation, this result illustrates how skill composition can yield
capabilities that exceed what any individual skill provides.
4.6
Skill Compilation: Multi-Agent to Single-Agent
A provocative finding from Li [15] is that multi-agent sys-
tems can often be “compiled” into single-agent skill libraries
with substantial reductions in token usage and latency while
maintaining accuracy. However, this compression exhibits a


--- PAGE 5 ---
Agent Skills for Large Language Models: Architecture, Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
phase transition: beyond a critical library size, skill selection
accuracy degrades sharply. This finding has practical implica-
tions for skill library management: there exist fundamental
limits on how many skills a single agent can effectively man-
age.
5
Deployment: Agents, Benchmarks, and
the Computer-Use Stack
Computer-use agents (CUAs) are the most visible deploy-
ment domain for the skills paradigm, since operating a com-
puter through a GUI inherently requires composing sequences
of perception, reasoning, and action that map naturally to
skill abstractions. They are not the only relevant domain:
software-engineering agents, web agents, function-calling
systems, embodied agents, scientific assistants, and edu-
cational tutors all require reusable procedural knowledge.
CUAs receive extended treatment here because their bench-
marks expose the full perception–grounding–action loop
and because their failure modes are unusually concrete.
5.1
GUI Agent Architectures
USER
SKILL LAYER
AGENT CORE
ENV
User Intent / Task Specification
"Process expense receipts from Q4 and submit the report"
Skill Router
Skill Library (Procedural Knowledge)
pdf-processing
SKILL.md
scripts/extract.py
scripts/ocr.py
xlsx-creation
SKILL.md
assets/template.xlsx
expense-report
SKILL.md
scripts/verify.py
scripts/submit.py
data-analysis
SKILL.md
scripts/plot.py
...
Agent Core — Cognitive Architecture
AcMve Context / Working Memory
Injected: "expense-report" Instructions + Tools
Context Injection
Perception
Screenshot/DOM
Grounding
UI Localization
Reasoning
CoT / Planning
Action
Click / Type / Code
Memory
Trajectory Trace + Skill Cache + History
MCP Layer
GitHub Server
pull_request()
Postgres Server
execute_sql()
Local FS Server
read_file()
Execute
OS Environment
Browser / SaaS App
$ python submit.py
[INFO] Validating...
Uploading report...
File Explorer
/project/finance
- receipts.pdf
State Feedback
Control Flow
State Feedback
InjecPon
MCP I/O
Memory R/W
Figure 2. Architecture of a skill-equipped computer-use
agent showing the interplay between the skill library,
perception-grounding-action pipeline, MCP connectivity
layer, and the operating system environment. The active
skill (highlighted) is selected by the router and injected into
the agent’s context.
Figure 2 shows how a skill-equipped CUA composes a
skill library, perception and grounding modules, MCP con-
nectivity, and operating-system actions. The state of the art
in CUA architectures has progressed rapidly. UI-TARS [22],
introduced in January 2025, established new baselines across
ten GUI benchmarks through enhanced perception, unified
action modeling, and System-2 reasoning. Its successor, UI-
TARS-2 [30], introduced a data flywheel for scalable trajec-
tory generation and stabilized multi-turn RL training, reach-
ing 47.5% on OSWorld and 73.3% on AndroidWorld.
Agent S2 [1] proposed a compositional generalist-specialist
framework with a Mixture-of-Grounding mechanism for
precise GUI localization, achieving 18.9% and 32.7% relative
improvements over Claude Computer Use and UI-TARS, re-
spectively, on OSWorld.
OpenCUA [32] provides the most comprehensive open-
source framework, with AgentNet—the first large-scale CUA
dataset spanning three operating systems and over 200 appli-
cations. OpenCUA-72B achieves 45.0% on OSWorld-Verified,
the strongest open-source result. Its release at NeurIPS 2025
as a Spotlight paper signals the field’s maturity.
5.2
GUI Grounding Advances
Accurate GUI grounding—identifying the correct screen el-
ement to interact with—remains a critical skill for CUAs.
UGround [11], an ICLR 2025 Oral, trained on 10 million
GUI elements from 1.3 million screenshots, establishing the
largest GUI visual grounding dataset and outperforming ex-
isting models by up to 20% absolute. The Jedi framework [35]
scaled grounding data to 4 million examples via UI decom-
position and synthesis, improving OSWorld agentic success
from 5% to 27%.
A striking result from Yuan et al. [36] demonstrates that
RL-based self-evolutionary training enables a 7B parame-
ter model to achieve 47.3% on ScreenSpot-Pro, outperform-
ing the 72B UI-TARS model by 24.2 percentage points with
only 3,000 training samples. Similarly, GUI-Actor [34] in-
troduces coordinate-free visual grounding via an attention-
based action head, with a 7B model surpassing UI-TARS-72B
on ScreenSpot-Pro.
5.3
Benchmark Landscape
Table 3 presents representative benchmark results for CUA-
adjacent and tool-use settings. The field has witnessed rapid
progress: on OSWorld-style tasks, reported success rates
have climbed from single digits in early 2024 to benchmark-
specific parity with the published human baseline in OSWorld-
V (72.6% vs. 72.36%) by December 2025. This should not
be read as generalized operational superiority over human
users; rather, it indicates that narrow benchmark slices are be-
ginning to saturate. More challenging settings—professional
applications (ScreenSpot-Pro), long-horizon tasks (OS-Marathon [33]),
hybrid GUI-code workflows (CoAct-1 [27]), software main-
tenance tasks (SWE-bench [14]), and function-calling evalu-
ations (BFCL [8])—continue to expose significant gaps.


--- PAGE 6 ---
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
Xu and Yan
Table 3. Representative agent benchmark results (as of Feb
2026). SR = Success Rate (%).
Benchmark
Reported Agent
SR
Human
OSWorld
CoAct-1
59.9
72.4
OSWorld-V
Proprietary
72.6
72.4
WinAgentArena
CUA-Skill
57.5
–
AndroidWorld
UI-TARS-2
73.3
–
ScreenSpot-Pro
Yuan et al.
47.3
–
SWE-bench V.
Claude Opus 4.6
79.2
–
BFCL v4
Multiple
>90
–
6
Security of Agent Skills
The rapid adoption of agent skills has introduced a signif-
icant and novel attack surface. Unlike traditional software
packages, skills combine natural-language instructions with
executable code in a format that agents trust implicitly. Three
concurrent studies, all appearing between October 2025 and
February 2026, provide the first empirical characterization
of this threat landscape.
6.1
Prompt Injection via Skills
Schmotz et al. [25] demonstrated that Agent Skills enable
“trivially simple” prompt injections. By embedding malicious
instructions within long SKILL.md files and referenced scripts,
attackers can exfiltrate sensitive data such as internal files
or passwords. Critically, the authors show that system-level
guardrails of a popular coding agent can be bypassed: a be-
nign, task-specific approval with a “Don’t ask again” option
carries over to closely related but harmful actions. The attack
exploits the fundamental trust model of skills—once loaded,
a skill’s instructions are treated as authoritative context.
6.2
Vulnerabilities at Scale
Liu et al. [16] conducted the first large-scale empirical secu-
rity analysis, collecting 42,447 skills from two major market-
places and analyzing 31,132 using SkillScan, a multi-stage de-
tection framework combining static analysis with LLM-based
semantic classification. The findings are sobering: 26.1% of
skills contain at least one vulnerability, spanning 14 dis-
tinct patterns across four categories: prompt injection, data
exfiltration (13.3%), privilege escalation (11.8%), and supply
chain risks. Skills bundling executable scripts are 2.12× more
likely to contain vulnerabilities than instruction-only skills
(OR=2.12, 𝑝< 0.001). 5.2% of skills exhibit high-severity
patterns strongly suggesting malicious intent.
6.3
Confirmed Malicious Skills
A subsequent study [17] constructed the first ground-truth
dataset of confirmed malicious skills by behaviorally veri-
fying 98,380 skills from two community registries. Among
157 confirmed malicious skills with 632 vulnerabilities, the
authors identified two attack archetypes: Data Thieves that
exfiltrate credentials through supply chain techniques, and
Agent Hijackers that subvert agent decision-making through
instruction manipulation. A single industrialized actor ac-
counted for 54.1% of confirmed cases through templated
brand impersonation.
6.4
Toward a Governance Framework
The findings above—from prompt injection via trusted skill
files [25] to the 26.1% vulnerability rate across 42,447 com-
munity skills [16] to confirmed malicious actors operating at
scale [17]—collectively demonstrate that the current implicit
trust model is untenable. The governance problem is not
only whether a skill is malicious at installation time, but also
whether its declared purpose, embedded instructions, scripts,
dependencies, and runtime behavior remain aligned as the
environment changes.
We propose a Skill Trust and Lifecycle Governance
Framework (Figure 3) that synthesizes insights from across
this survey into a principled governance model. The figure’s
attack categories summarize the concrete families reported
in the empirical studies, while the gates and tiers express a
deployment policy for reducing their impact. The framework
has three components:
(1) Verification gates. Four sequential gates (G1–G4) pro-
vide defense in depth. G1 applies static analysis—pattern
matching and dependency scanning—to flag known vulner-
ability signatures. G2 uses LLM-based semantic classifica-
tion to detect intent mismatches between a skill’s declared
purpose and its actual instructions, addressing the indirect
prompt injection vectors identified by Schmotz et al. [25].
G3 executes the skill in a behavioral sandbox to detect side
effects invisible to static analysis, motivated by the finding
that confirmed malicious skills average 4.03 vulnerabilities
spanning 3 kill-chain phases [17]. G4 validates a proposed
permission manifest: a formal declaration of required capa-
bilities (tools, file paths, network access) that is compared
against observed behavior from G3.
(2) Trust tiers. The framework assigns skills to one of
four tiers (T1–T4) based on the gates they pass and their
provenance. The key insight is that the mapping is not bi-
nary (safe/unsafe) but graduated, following the principle of
least privilege. An unvetted community skill (T1) receives
instructions-only access with full tool isolation. A vendor-
certified skill (T4) receives full capabilities. This directly ad-
dresses the finding that bundling executable scripts increases
vulnerability risk by 2.12× [16]: T1 and T2 skills are never
granted script execution.
(3) Lifecycle trust evolution. Deployed skills are subject to
continuous runtime monitoring. Anomalous behavior (un-
expected tool calls, permission boundary probes) triggers
demotion or revocation. Conversely, skills with clean run-
time histories can be promoted. This creates an incentive
structure analogous to reputation systems in package man-
agement ecosystems.


--- PAGE 7 ---
Agent Skills for Large Language Models: Architecture, Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
Proposed Skill Trust and Lifecycle Governance Framework
An integrative model mapping acquisition pathways, verification gates, and trust tiers to deployment permissions
A C Q U I S I T I O N
Human-Authored
SKILL.md + scripts + assets
RL-Learned (SAGE)
Sequential rollout + reward
Autonomous (SEAgent)
Curriculum + exploration
Community-Contributed
Third-party marketplaces
V E R I F I C A T I O N  G A T E S
G1
Static Analysis
Pattern matching · dependency scan
G2
Semantic Classification
LLM-based intent analysis
G3
Behavioral Sandbox
Execution monitoring · side-effect audit
G4
Permission Manifest Validation
Declared vs. observed capability match
Reject / quarantine
T R U S T  T I E R S  →P E R M I S S I O N S
T4
Vendor-Certified
Full tool access · code execution · network I/O
Gates required: G1 + G2 + G3 + G4 + vendor review
T3
Organization-Vetted
Declared tools only · scoped file access · no network
Gates required: G1 + G2 + G3 + admin approval
T2
Community-Reviewed
Read-only tools · no code execution · user confirm
Gates required: G1 + G2 + community audit
T1
Unvetted / Sandboxed
Instructions only · no tool access · full isolation
Gates required: G1 only (auto-triage)
SKILL LIFECYCLE WITH TRUST EVOLUTION
Author
Create skill
Submit
+ manifest
Verify
G1–G4 gates
Deploy
At assigned tier
Monitor
Runtime audit
Promote (T↑)
Revoke / Demote (T↓)
EMPIRICAL MOTIVATION: WHY THIS FRAMEWORK IS NEEDED
Agent Skill Vulnerability Landscape
Attack Surface by Skill Layer
L1 meta
Minimal: name spoofing only
L2 instr.
High: prompt injection
L3 scripts
Critical: code execution
Cross-referenced with §3 architecture
Proposed Framework Impact
T4 (vendor)
Full capability
T3 (org-vetted)
Scoped access
T2 (community)
Read-only
T1 (unvetted)
Full isolation
Principle of least privilege
Synthesizes: progressive disclosure architecture (§3), acquisition pathways (§4), CUA deployment patterns (§5),
empirical security findings from Schmotz et al. (2025), Liu et al. (2026a,b), and open challenges (§7).
Vendor-certified (T4)
Org-vetted (T3)
Community (T2)
Unvetted (T1)
Verification gate
Failed test
Prompt Injection
Instruction-level attacks
Hidden commands in SKILL.md
Via referenced scripts/, refs/
Data Exﬁltration
Privilege Escalation
Supply Chain
Credit harvest: API keys, tokens
File theft: Source code
Net exfil: HTTP, DNS
Permission abuse: Tool scope expansion
Context override: “Don’t ask again”
Brand impersonation
Dependency Confusion: Malicious packages
Figure 3. Skill Trust and Lifecycle Governance Framework: acquisition pathways pass through verification gates, map to
graduated trust tiers, and evolve through runtime monitoring.
The framework is deliberately architecture-aware: it maps
directly to the three progressive disclosure levels identified
in Section 3. Level 1 metadata is the only component exposed
at T1; Level 2 instructions are accessible at T2 and above;
Level 3 executable scripts require T3 or T4 trust. This corre-
spondence ensures that governance decisions are grounded
in the actual attack surface rather than applied uniformly.
A practical enterprise implementation could integrate
these gates into the same lifecycle already used for internal
packages. At intake, a registry service records provenance
and runs G1–G2 before a skill is searchable by agents. For
skills requesting scripts, file-system access, network access,
or external MCP servers, a sandboxed staging environment
runs G3 and compares observed behavior with the permis-
sion manifest in G4. At deployment, the runtime enforces
the resulting tier by limiting which files, tools, network des-
tinations, and approval scopes the agent may use while that
skill is active. This is a governance proposal rather than an
empirically validated system; its value is to make the trust
assumptions explicit and testable.
7
Open Challenges and Research Agenda
We identify seven open challenges that define the frontier of
agent skills research:


--- PAGE 8 ---
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
Xu and Yan
Challenge 1: Cross-Platform Portability. While Agent
Skills has been released as an open standard, true cross-
platform portability remains aspirational. Skills authored for
Claude may implicitly depend on Claude-specific capabil-
ities (code execution environment, tool signatures, model
behaviors). Achieving genuine portability requires either (a)
a universal skill runtime or (b) skill compilation targeting
different agent platforms.
Challenge 2: Skill Selection at Scale. Li [15] identified
a phase transition in skill selection accuracy as library size
grows. As enterprise skill libraries scale to hundreds or thou-
sands of skills, the routing problem—determining which
skill(s) to activate for a given query—becomes combinatori-
ally challenging. Advanced Tool Use features [6] address this
partially through Tool Search, but the fundamental scaling
problem persists.
Challenge 3: Skill Composition and Orchestration.
Real-world tasks often require composing multiple skills.
CUA-Skill’s composition graphs [10] and Agentic Propos-
ing’s dynamic composition [13] offer initial solutions, but
principled frameworks for multi-skill orchestration—including
conflict resolution, resource sharing, and failure recovery—
remain underdeveloped.
Challenge 4: Capability-Based Permission Models. Cur-
rent skill execution operates with implicit trust: once loaded,
a skill can direct the agent to use any available tool. The
security findings of Section 6 demonstrate that this trust
model is exploitable. A capability-based permission system,
where each skill declares required permissions and the agent
or user grants them explicitly, would significantly reduce
the attack surface.
Challenge 5: Skill Verification and Testing. Unlike soft-
ware packages with unit tests and CI/CD pipelines, skills
currently lack standardized testing frameworks. Anthropic’s
eval guidance [4] provides principles but not skill-specific
tooling. Automated skill verification—confirming that a skill
does what it claims and nothing more—is an open techni-
cal problem that intersects AI safety and formal methods.
Evaluation should include negative tests for hallucinated
procedures, cascading execution failures, deadlocks between
conflicting skills, silent permission escalation, and adversar-
ial skill chaining.
Challenge 6: Continual Skill Learning Without Cata-
strophic Forgetting. Shenfeld et al. [26] investigate whether
pretrained LLMs can acquire new skills without degrading
existing capabilities, finding that self-distillation offers a
promising path. However, the interaction between dynami-
cally loaded skills and the model’s base capabilities—whether
skills can inadvertently “overwrite” useful default behaviors—
remains poorly understood.
Challenge 7: Evaluation Methodology. Current bench-
marks evaluate agents on task completion but rarely assess
skill quality directly. Metrics for skill reusability (does the
skill generalize across tasks?), composability (can it be com-
bined with other skills?), and maintainability (how robust is
it to environmental changes?) are needed to evaluate skill
ecosystems rather than individual agent runs.
8
Discussion
The agent skills paradigm represents a shift from monolithic
intelligence to modular expertise. This shift has practical con-
sequences that extend beyond technical architecture. For or-
ganizations, skills offer a mechanism to encode institutional
knowledge in a form that survives personnel turnover—a
digital analogue of standard operating procedures. For the
AI ecosystem, open skill standards create network effects:
every skill contributed to the commons increases the value
of the platform for all users.
The security challenges, however, are real and urgent. The
26.1% vulnerability rate found by Liu et al. [16] is not merely a
technical metric; it reflects the fundamental tension between
openness and safety that has characterized every major soft-
ware ecosystem from package managers to app stores. Our
proposed Trust and Lifecycle Governance Framework (Fig-
ure 3) offers a principled path forward by decoupling trust
decisions from binary accept/reject into graduated tiers that
align permissions with provenance and verification depth. It
also highlights non-malicious failure modes: a benign skill
can hallucinate outdated instructions, trigger a cascade of
tool failures, deadlock when composed with another skill, or
overgeneralize an approval into a broader permission bound-
ary. The skill ecosystem is currently in its “pre-governance”
phase, and the decisions made in the coming months about
verification pipelines, permission models, and trust hierar-
chies will shape its trajectory for years.
From a research perspective, the most promising direc-
tions lie at the intersection of skill acquisition and deploy-
ment. SAGE [31] and SEAgent [28] demonstrate that agents
can learn skills through experience, but these learned skills
are model-internal—they cannot be inspected, shared, or gov-
erned in the way that human-authored SKILL.md files can.
Bridging this gap—enabling agents to not only learn skills
but externalize them as portable, auditable artifacts—would
unify the acquisition and deployment paradigms.
9
Conclusion
Agent skills have emerged as a foundational abstraction for
the next generation of LLM-based agents. By packaging pro-
cedural expertise as composable, portable, and dynamically
loadable modules, skills resolve the tension between general-
purpose models and specialized task requirements. The rapid
ecosystem growth—from Anthropic’s October 2025 launch
to open standardization in December 2025, with adoption


--- PAGE 9 ---
Agent Skills for Large Language Models: Architecture, Acquisition, Security, and the Path Forward
AgentSkills ’26, May 26, 2026, San Jose, USA
across multiple frontier model providers—confirms that the
industry has converged on this abstraction.
This survey has traced the skill paradigm across four di-
mensions: architectural foundations, acquisition methods,
deployment settings with emphasis on the CUA stack, and se-
curity. The field’s progress has been remarkable: benchmark
results that seemed aspirational a year ago are now routine,
and new challenges—security governance, cross-platform
portability, skill composition—have emerged to define the
next frontier.
The path forward requires simultaneous advances in mul-
tiple directions: more principled skill learning algorithms
that produce inspectable artifacts, robust permission models
that maintain usability, evaluation frameworks that assess
skill quality rather than merely task completion, and gov-
ernance structures that balance openness with safety. The
agent skills paradigm is young, but its trajectory suggests it
will be central to how humanity collaborates with AI systems
in the years ahead.
References
[1] Saaket Agashe et al. 2025. Agent S2: A Compositional Generalist-
Specialist Framework for Computer Use Agents.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.00906 (2025).
[2] Anthropic. 2024. Introducing the Model Context Protocol. https:
//www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol. Nov 2024.
[3] Anthropic. 2025. Agent Skills Open Standard. https://agentskills.io.
Open standard specification.
[4] Anthropic. 2025. Demystifying Evals for AI Agents. https://www.
anthropic.com/engineering/demystifying-evals-for-ai-agents.
[5] Anthropic.
2025.
Donating
the
Model
Context
Proto-
col
and
Establishing
the
Agentic
AI
Foundation.
https:
//www.anthropic.com/news/donating-the-model-context-protocol-
and-establishing-of-the-agentic-ai-foundation. Dec 9, 2025.
[6] Anthropic. 2025. Introducing Advanced Tool Use on the Claude De-
veloper Platform. https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/advanced-
tool-use. Nov 24, 2025.
[7] Anthropic. 2025. Introducing Agent Skills. https://www.anthropic.
com/news/skills. Product Announcement, Oct 2025.
[8] UC Berkeley. 2025. Berkeley Function-Calling Leaderboard. https:
//gorilla.cs.berkeley.edu/leaderboard.html. (2025). ICML 2025.
[9] Tianle Cai, Xuezhi Wang, Tengyu Ma, Xinyun Chen, and Denny
Zhou. 2023. Large Language Models as Tool Makers. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.17126 (2023).
[10] Tianyi Chen et al. 2026. CUA-Skill: Develop Skills for Computer Using
Agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.21123 (2026).
[11] Boyu Gou et al. 2025. UGround: Universal Visual Grounding for GUI
Agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Oral.
[12] Xueyu Hu et al. 2025. OS Agents: A Survey on MLLM-based Agents
for General Computing Devices Use. In Proceedings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
[13] Zhengbo Jiao et al. 2026. Agentic Proposing: Enhancing Large Lan-
guage Model Reasoning via Compositional Skill Synthesis. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.03279 (2026).
[14] Carlos E. Jimenez et al. 2024. SWE-bench: Can Language Models
Resolve Real-World GitHub Issues? https://www.swebench.com/.
[15] Xiaoxiao Li. 2026. When Single-Agent with Skills Replace Multi-Agent
Systems and When They Fail. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.04748 (2026).
[16] Yi Liu et al. 2026. Agent Skills in the Wild: An Empirical Study of Se-
curity Vulnerabilities at Scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.10338 (2026).
[17] Yi Liu et al. 2026. Malicious Agent Skills in the Wild: A Large-Scale
Security Empirical Study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.06547 (2026).
[18] Junyu Luo et al. 2025.
Large Language Model Agent: A Sur-
vey on Methodology, Applications and Challenges. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.21460 (2025).
[19] Model Context Protocol. 2025. Model Context Protocol Specification
(2025-11-25). https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-
25.
[20] Aske Plaat et al. 2025. Agentic Large Language Models: A Survey.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.23037 (2025).
[21] Cheng Qian et al. 2024. CREATOR: Tool Creation for Disentangling Ab-
stract and Concrete Reasonings of Large Language Models. In Findings
of EMNLP.
[22] Yujia Qin et al. 2025. UI-TARS: Pioneering Automated GUI Interaction
with Native Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12326 (2025).
[23] Changle Qu et al. 2025. Tool Learning with Large Language Models:
A Survey. Frontiers of Computer Science 19, 8 (2025).
[24] Timo Schick et al. 2024. Toolformer: Language Models Can Teach
Themselves to Use Tools. (2024).
[25] David Schmotz, Sahar Abdelnabi, and Maksym Andriushchenko. 2025.
Agent Skills Enable a New Class of Realistic and Trivially Simple
Prompt Injections. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.26328 (2025).
[26] Idan Shenfeld, Mehul Damani, et al. 2026. Self-Distillation Enables
Continual Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.19897 (2026).
[27] Linxin Song et al. 2025. CoAct-1: Computer-using Agents with Coding
as Actions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.03923 (2025).
[28] Zeyi Sun, Ziyu Liu, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Xiaoyi Dong, Tong Wu,
Dahua Lin, and Jiaqi Wang. 2025. SEAgent: Self-Evolving Computer
Use Agent with Autonomous Learning from Experience. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.04700 (2025).
[29] Guanzhi Wang et al. 2023. Voyager: An Open-Ended Embodied Agent
with Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16291 (2023).
[30] Haoming Wang et al. 2025. UI-TARS-2 Technical Report: Advancing
GUI Agent with Multi-Turn Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2509.02544 (2025).
[31] Jiongxiao Wang et al. 2025. Reinforcement Learning for Self-Improving
Agent with Skill Library. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.17102 (2025).
[32] Xinyuan Wang et al. 2025. OpenCUA: Open Foundations for Computer-
Use Agents. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS). Spotlight.
[33] Jing Wu et al. 2026.
OS-Marathon: Benchmarking Computer-
Use Agents on Long-Horizon Repetitive Tasks.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.20650 (2026).
[34] Qianhui Wu et al. 2025. GUI-Actor: Coordinate-Free Visual Grounding
for GUI Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.03143 (2025).
[35] Tianbao Xie et al. 2025. Scaling Computer-Use Grounding via User
Interface Decomposition and Synthesis. In Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (NeurIPS). Spotlight.
[36] Xinbin Yuan et al. 2025.
Enhancing Visual Grounding for GUI
Agents via Self-Evolutionary Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.12370 (2025).
[37] Barry
Zhang,
Keith
Lazuka,
and
Mahesh
Murag.
2025.
Equipping
Agents
for
the
Real
World
with
Agent
Skills.
https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/equipping-agents-for-
the-real-world-with-agent-skills. Anthropic Engineering Blog, Oct
2025.
[38] Chaoyun Zhang et al. 2024. Large Language Model-Brained GUI
Agents: A Survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.18279 (2024). Updated
May 2025.
