--- PAGE 1 ---
ReCamMaster: Camera-Controlled Generative Rendering from A Single Video
Jianhong Bai1∗, Menghan Xia2†, Xiao Fu3, Xintao Wang2, Lianrui Mu1, Jinwen Cao2,
Zuozhu Liu1, Haoji Hu1†, Xiang Bai4, Pengfei Wan2, Di Zhang2
1Zhejiang University, 2Kling Team, Kuaishou Technology, 3CUHK, 4HUST
Project webpage: https://jianhongbai.github.io/ReCamMaster/
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
 A close-up of a character with a furry, muscular face, displaying a range of 
intense and focused expressions.
One man, dressed in a black leather jacket and jeans, is pointing a gun at the 
other man, who is wearing a dark suit and white shirt.
A couple is dancing in a luxurious ballroom filled with elegantly dressed guests. 
They holding each other's hands and moving gracefully.
A man and a woman are dancing together on a city street at dusk. They are 
both moving gracefully to the rhythm of the music.
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
A middle-aged man wearing a light blue shirt. He is smiling warmly and appears 
to be in a relaxed and happy mood.
A person in a vibrant red suit, bright red clown wig, and white face paint is 
descending a Blight of stairs.
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Figure 1. Examples synthesized by ReCamMaster. ReCamMaster re-shoots the source video with novel camera trajectories. We
visualized the novel camera trajectories alongside the video frames. Video results are on our project page.
Abstract
Camera control has been actively studied in text or image
conditioned video generation tasks. However, altering cam-
era trajectories of a given video remains under-explored,
despite its importance in the field of video creation.
It
is non-trivial due to the extra constraints of maintain-
ing multiple-frame appearance and dynamic synchroniza-
tion. To address this, we present ReCamMaster, a camera-
controlled generative video re-rendering framework that re-
produces the dynamic scene of an input video at novel cam-
era trajectories. The core innovation lies in harnessing the
generative capabilities of pre-trained text-to-video models
∗Work done during an internship at Kling Team, Kuaishou Tech.
† Corresponding authors.
through a simple yet powerful video conditioning mecha-
nism—its capability is often overlooked in current research.
To overcome the scarcity of qualified training data, we con-
struct a comprehensive multi-camera synchronized video
dataset using Unreal Engine 5, which is carefully curated
to follow real-world filming characteristics, covering di-
verse scenes and camera movements. It helps the model
generalize to in-the-wild videos. Lastly, we further improve
the robustness to diverse inputs through a meticulously de-
signed training strategy. Extensive experiments show that
our method substantially outperforms existing state-of-the-
art approaches. Our method also finds promising appli-
cations in video stabilization, super-resolution, and out-
painting. Our code and dataset are publicly available at:
https://github.com/KwaiVGI/ReCamMaster.
arXiv:2503.11647v2  [cs.CV]  9 Jul 2025


--- PAGE 2 ---
1. Introduction
Camera movement is a fundamental element in film produc-
tion, profoundly shaping the audience’s visual experience
and conveying both emotional depth and narrative inten-
tions. For instance, a dolly-in shot can masterfully empha-
size a character, building tension or guiding viewers’ atten-
tion to crucial details. Similarly, crane shots excel at show-
casing expansive landscapes, often employed at the opening
to dramatically reveal the full scope of a setting. Despite
its artistic significance, achieving professional-level camera
movement remains a challenge for amateur videographers,
because of hardware limitations (such as stabilization is-
sues in handheld recordings) and technical skill gaps. To
address this dilemma, we explore innovative approaches to
modify camera trajectories in post-production, empowering
creators with the ability to enhance their original footage by
displaying the dynamic scenes with more compelling and
polished camera trajectories when needed.
Previous research on camera-controlled generation has
primarily focused on text-to-video (T2V) or image-to-video
(I2V) generation [18, 51]. Recently, GCD [45] pioneered
camera-controlled video-to-video generation,
achieving
promising results on domain-specific videos synthesized by
the Kubric simulator [14]. However, its effectiveness on
real-world videos is limited due to the narrow domain of
training data and its inferior video conditioning mechanism.
As a concurrent work, ReCapture [65] introduces a novel
two-stage approach: first generating a camera-controlled
anchor video using existing image-level multiview diffusion
models, then optimizing the result by fine-tuning spatial and
temporal LoRA [21] layers over the input and anchor videos
respectively. While showing promising performance, its re-
quirement for per-video optimization constrains practical
applications. Similarly, other approaches [5, 15] achieve
video re-rendering through explicit 4D reconstruction fol-
lowed by video post-optimization. However, their perfor-
mance is significantly restricted by the challenge of single
video-based 4D reconstruction techniques [26, 53].
To address these challenges, we present ReCamMaster, a
camera-controlled generative video re-rendering framework
that can regenerate in-the-wild videos at novel camera tra-
jectories. The core innovation is to utilize the generative
capabilities of pre-trained text-to-video models through an
elegant yet powerful video conditioning mechanism. Com-
pared to alternatives, our method shows superior perfor-
mance in preserving both the visual and dynamic character-
istics of the input video. Notably, this conditioning mecha-
nism indeed exhibits remarkable potential as a versatile so-
lution for conditional generation tasks, which is overlooked
in current research.
Since no qualified training data are
publicly available, we develop a large-scale multi-camera
synchronized video dataset using Unreal Engine 5, which
contains 136K realistic videos shot from 13.6K different
dynamic scenes in 40 high-quality 3D environments with
122K different camera trajectories. Particularly, it is care-
fully curated to simulate real-world filming characteristics,
which is proven to bring an advantage to striking domain
alignment to in-the-wild videos. Lastly, we further improve
the robustness of our model to diverse inputs through a
meticulously designed training strategy.
Experimental results show that our method outperforms
state-of-the-art approaches and strong baselines by a large
margin. Ablation studies verified the effectiveness of our
key designs. Furthermore, ReCamMaster demonstrates its
potential in scenarios like video stabilization, video super-
resolution, and video outpainting. Our contribution can be
summarized as follows:
• We introduce a high-quality multi-camera synchronized
video dataset featuring diverse camera trajectories. This
dataset has been publicly released to advance research in
camera-controlled video generation, 4D reconstruction,
and related fields.
• We conduct an in-depth investigation and validation of an
effective video conditioning mechanism for text-to-video
generation models. It significantly outperforms other al-
ternatives employed in baseline methods.
• Extensive experiments show that our proposed ReCam-
Master significantly advances the state-of-the-art in video
recapturing. Furthermore, it finds promising applications
across multiple real-world scenarios.
2. Related Works
Camera-Controlled Video Generation.
With the suc-
cess of text-to-video generation models [6, 7, 10, 35, 62],
the introduction of other conditional signals for controllable
video generation has been widely studied [11, 16, 56, 63].
In camera-controlled video generation [2, 61, 67, 68], re-
searchers aim to incorporate camera parameters into video
generation models to control the viewpoint of the output
video. AnimateDiff [17] introduces various motion LoRAs
[21] to learn specific patterns of camera movements. Mo-
tionCtrl [51] encodes 6DoF camera extrinsics and injects
them into the diffusion model, fine-tuning on video-camera
pair data to achieve video generation with arbitrary trajec-
tory control. CameraCtrl [18] further improves the accuracy
and generalizability of single-sequence camera control with
a dedicatedly designed camera encoder. CVD [28] achieves
multi-sequence camera control with the proposed cross-
video synchronization module. AC3D [1] conducts an in-
depth investigation into camera motion knowledge within
diffusion transformers, achieving camera-controlled gener-
ation with enhanced visual quality. Meanwhile, training-
free methods have also been explored [20, 22, 30].
Video-to-Video Generation.
Video-to-video generation
[34, 48, 49] is explored in various tasks, including video


--- PAGE 3 ---
editing [33, 60], video outpainting [8, 46], video super-
resolution [58, 69], etc. Most relevant to our work is syn-
thesizing novel viewpoint videos based on a given video
and camera parameters [5, 15, 39, 45, 65].
GCD [45]
pioneered camera-controlled video-to-video generation by
training a video generation model with paired video data
created by the Kubric simulator [14]. Although it performs
well on in-domain data, GCD’s generalization capability is
limited by the significant domain gap between the train-
ing data and real-world videos. Recapture [65] proposes
a practical solution with per-video optimization. Several
concurrent works [5, 15, 39, 54, 64], achieve 4D-consistent
video-to-video generation by extracting dynamic informa-
tion from the original video using 3D point tracking [26, 53]
and incorporating it as a condition into the video generator.
This paradigm is promising when synchronized multi-view
videos are unavailable. Nevertheless, the generation quality
is limited by the accuracy of the point-tracking methods. In
the field of 4D object generation, video-to-video generation
can be achieved by 1) training a multi-view video generator
[52, 55], or 2) following a reconstruct-and-render pipeline
via 4D reconstruction methods [29, 66]. [32, 42] achieve
3D/4D scene reconstruction with videos generated with dif-
fusion models.
In this paper, we focus on open-domain
camera-controlled video generation. To achieve this, we
first create a large multi-camera synchronized dataset with
diverse camera trajectories. We also propose a novel video
conditioning method to achieve better generation ability.
3. Multi-Cam Video: A High-Quality Multi-
Camera Synchronized Video Dataset
To re-shoot input videos based on novel camera trajecto-
ries, paired video data is required for training the video
generation model. Specifically, the training data should in-
clude multiple shots captured in the same scene simulta-
neously, allowing the model to learn 4D consistent gener-
ation. Acquiring such data in real-world scenarios is ex-
tremely costly, and publicly available multi-view synchro-
nized datasets [13, 24, 25, 40, 59] are also limited by the di-
versity of scenes and constrained camera movements, mak-
ing them unsuitable for our task. Therefore, we chose to
use a rendering engine to generate the training data. The
advantages of this approach are: 1) precise camera trajec-
tories can be obtained, 2) complete synchronization in the
time dimension can be achieved, and 3) the data volume can
be more easily scaled up.
We build the entire data rendering pipeline in Unreal En-
gine 5 [12]. Specifically, we first collect multiple 3D envi-
ronments as “backgrounds”. Then, we place animated char-
acters within these environments as the “main subjects” of
the videos. We then position multiple cameras facing the
subjects and moving along predefined trajectories to simu-
late the process of simultaneous shooting. This allows us to
(a) 3D Environments
(b) Characters
(c) Animations
(d) Camera Trajectories
Figure 2. Illustration of the dataset construction process. We
build the multi-camera synchronized training dataset by rendering
in Unreal Engine 5. This is achieved using 3D environments, char-
acters, animations collected from the internet, and our designed
massive camera trajectories.
render datasets with synchronized cameras that include dy-
namic objects. To scale up the data volume, we construct a
set of camera movement rules for automatically batch gen-
eration of natural and diverse camera trajectories. Addi-
tionally, we randomly combined different characters and ac-
tions across different video sets. In total, we obtain 136K
visually-realistic videos shot from 13.6K different dynamic
scenes in 40 high-quality 3D environments with 122K dif-
ferent camera trajectories. Fig. 8 in the Appendix shows
some of the rendered video frames. In Appendix C.1, we
conduct an ablation study comparing model performance
when trained on a dataset with limited scenes and camera
trajectories versus our comprehensive dataset. This high-
lights the significance of our high-quality dataset. For more
details about the dataset, please refer to Appendix B.
4. Camera-Controlled Video Re-Generation
Given a source video Vs ∈Rf×c×h×w, we aim to syn-
thesize a target video Vt ∈Rf×c×h×w sharing the same
dynamic scene but presenting at specified camera trajecto-
ries denoted by camt := [R, t] ∈Rf×3×4. Particularly,
Vt should conform to the multiple-frame appearance and
synchronized dynamics of Vs. To achieve this, we propose
to harness the generative capability of pre-trained text-to-
video diffusion models [7, 62] by imposing dual conditions,
i.e., the source video and target camera trajectories through
a meticulously designed framework. The overview of the
model is depicted in Fig. 3.
4.1. Preliminary: Text-to-Video Base Model
Our study is conducted over an internal pre-trained text-to-
video foundation model. It is a latent video diffusion model,
consisting of a 3D Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE) [27]
and a Transformer-based diffusion model (DiT) [37]. Typ-


--- PAGE 4 ---
𝑧!
Patchify
𝑧"
𝑥! ∈𝑅"×$×%×&
Spatial-
Attention
3D-
Attention
Cross-
Attention
❄
❄
cam"
View-Attention
🔥
🔥
𝑥!' ∈𝑅"×$×%×&
Feed-
Forward NN
❄
Patchify
𝑥% ∈𝑅"×$×%×&
Spatial-
Attention
Cross-
Attention
❄
❄
𝑥%' ∈𝑅"×$×%×&
Feed-
Forward NN
❄
cam"
🔥
Feed-Forward NN
𝑉!
𝑉"
𝑧!
𝑧"
Add Noise
DiT Block
𝑥"
#
𝑉"
#
𝑧!
Patchify & Frame-
dimension Concatenation
𝑧"
𝑥!, 𝑥"
∈𝑅$×&'×!×(
Spatial-Attention
Patchify
3D-Attention
Cross-Attention
🔥
❄
❄
cam", 𝑝"
cam"
Projector
🔥
🔥
𝑥!#, 𝑥"
#
∈𝑅$×&'×!×(
Feed-Forward NN
❄
𝑧!
Channel-dimension 
Concatenation & Patchify
𝑧"
𝑥" ∈𝑅$×'×!×(
Spatial-Attention
3D-Attention
Cross-Attention
🔥
cam"
Projector
🔥
🔥
𝑥"
# ∈𝑅$×'×!×(
(a) Frame-dimension Conditioning
3D-VAE
Decoder 𝒟
3D-VAE
Encoder ℰ
Overall Architecture
(b) Channel-dimension Conditioning
(c) View-dimension Conditioning
3D-
Attention
❄
❄
🔥
3D-VAE
Encoder ℰ
🔥
🔥
🔥
Figure 3. Overview of ReCamMaster. Left: The training pipeline of ReCamMaster. A latent diffusion model is optimized to reconstruct
the target video Vt, conditioned on the source video Vs, target camera pose camt, and target prompt pt. Right: Comparison of different
video condition techniques. (a) Frame-dimension conditioning used in our paper; (b) Channel-dimension conditioning used in baseline
methods [5, 45]; (c) View-dimension conditioning in [3]. We omit the text prompt pt in (a)-(c) for simplicity.
ically, each Transformer block is instantiated as a sequence
of spatial attention, 3D (spatial-temporal) attention, and
cross-attention modules. The generative model adopts Rec-
tified Flow framework [9] for the noise schedule and de-
noising process. The forward process is defined as straight
paths between data distribution and a standard normal dis-
tribution, i.e.
 \ l ab e l {e q :forward} z_t = (1-t)z_0 + t\epsilon , 
(1)
where ϵ ∈N(0, I) and t denotes the iterative timestep. To
solve the denoising processing, we define a mapping be-
tween samples z1 from a noise distribution p1 to samples z0
from a data distribution p0 in terms of an ordinary differen-
tial equation (ODE), namely:
 \l a bel {e q:ODE} dz_t=v_{\Theta }(z_t,t)dt, 
(2)
where the velocity v is parameterized by the weights Θ of
a neural network. For training, we regress a vector field
ut that generates a probability path between p0 and p1 via
Conditional Flow Matching [31]:
 \la b el {eq:loss} \mathcal { L} _ {LCM}=\math
bb {E}_{t,p_t(z,\epsilon ),p(\epsilon )} ||v_{\Theta }(z_t,t)-u_t(z_0|\epsilon )||_2^2, 
(3)
where ut(z, ϵ) := ψ
′
t(ψ−1
t
(z|ϵ)|ϵ) with ψ(·|ϵ) denotes the
function of Eq. 1.
For inference, we employ Euler dis-
cretization for Eq. 2 and perform discretization over the
timestep interval at [0, 1], starting at t = 1. We then pro-
cessed with iterative sampling with:
 \ l abel  {eq:eule r_ s ample} z_t=z_{t-1} + v_{\Theta }(z_{t-1},t) * \Delta t. 
(4)
4.2. Conditional Video Injection Mechanism
To modify the camera trajectories of a given video us-
ing generative models, it is essential to condition the gen-
eration process on the source video.
Our experiments
reveal that the video injection mechanism is crucial for
overall performance.
We analyze and compare several
widely-adopted video conditioning approaches from pre-
vious works [3, 5, 45], alongside our proposed simple yet
powerful video injection mechanism. We provide an intu-
itive explanation of our design’s superior performance and
its potential impact.
Channel Dimension Conditioning.
Recent attempts [5,
45] incorporate the source video by concatenating the la-
tent of the source video xs with the noised latent of the
target video xt along the channel dimension, and add ad-
ditional input channels to the input convolutional layer. To
be specific, a variational autoencoder with encoder E is uti-
lized to project the source video Vs and target video Vt to
the latent space, zs = E(Vs), zt = E(Vt), where zs, zt ∈
Rb×f×c×h×w are the latent of source video and target video
with f frames, c channels, and spatial size of h × w. Then,
the source latent is concentrated with the noised target latent
along the channel dimension, and patchified into f × h × w
tokens with several convolutional layers:
  { x}_t = \textt t {patchify}([{z}_s, {z}_t]_{\text {channel-dim}}), 
(5)
where xt ∈Rb×f×s×d, s = h × w, d is the channel dimen-
sion for the latent diffusion model. We denote this condi-
tioning technique as the “channel-dimension conditioning”
and illustrate in Fig. 3(b).
View Dimension Conditioning.
To achieve multi-view
video generation, [3] proposes to introduce a plug-and-
play module for feature aggregation across views. Given
a source video latent zs = E(Vs) and a target video latent
zt = E(Vt), and patchify and forward to the diffusion trans-
former respectively:
  { x}_s = \textt t { patchify}({z}_s), {x}_t = \texttt {patchify}({z}_t), 
(6)


--- PAGE 5 ---
where xs, xt ∈Rb×f×s×d.
To achieve synchronization
and content consistency across views, an additional atten-
tion layer (denoted as view-attention) is added in each basic
transformer block, it performs self-attention between each
frame in multiple views:
 
 
\o v
e
r l ine {{F}}_ s
^i ,  
\ overline {{F}}_t^i = \texttt {attn\_view}({F}_s^i, {F}_t^i), 
(7)
where F i
s and F i
t are the i-th frame feature of Vs and Vt
respectively, and F
i
s and F
i
t are the output features. We
denote this conditioning technique as the “view-dimension
conditioning” and illustrated in Fig. 3(c).
Frame Dimension Conditioning (ours).
To achieve bet-
ter synchronization and content consistency with the source
video, we propose to concatenate the source video tokens
with the target video tokens along the frame dimension:
 
 \ l eft \{ \begin
 { a ligned} x_s &
= \ text tt {patchify}(z_s), \quad x_t = \texttt {patchify}(z_t), \\ x_i &= [x_s, x_t]_{\text {frame-dim}}, \end {aligned} \right . 
(8)
where xi ∈Rb×2f×s×d is the input of diffusion trans-
former.
In other words, the input token number is dou-
bled compared to the vanilla text-to-video generation pro-
cess. Moreover, we do not introduce additional attention
layers for feature aggregation across the source video and
the target video, since self-attention is performed between
all tokens in the 3D (spatial-temporal) attention layers. We
denote this conditioning technique as the “frame-dimension
conditioning” and illustrate in Fig. 3(a).
Comparison and Discussion.
Our experimental results
demonstrate that the frame dimension conditioning ap-
proach provides substantial advantages in utilizing condi-
tion information effectively, as illustrated by the compar-
ative analysis in Fig.
5.
We attribute this superior per-
formance to the inherent flexibility of our frame dimen-
sion conditioning method, which enables spatio-temporal
interaction between the conditional tokens and target tokens
through all blocks of the base model. This approach pro-
vides a more robust mechanism for understanding the cor-
relations between video pairs. While similar token concate-
nation strategies have proven effective in image-to-image
tasks [43], their potential in video controllable generation
has remained largely unexplored. Our study provides com-
pelling evidence of the effectiveness, highlighting the po-
tential of this underappreciated technique as a versatile so-
lution for conditional generation tasks.
4.3. Camera Pose Conditioning
To achieve camera-controlled video generation, a natural
idea is to condition the model on the source and target
video camera trajectories cams and camt to help the model
better understand the 4D space. Unfortunately, during in-
ference, even with state-of-the-art structure-from-motion
(SfM) methods for camera parameter estimation, it is chal-
lenging to obtain accurate camera trajectory information for
the input video [1]. Therefore, we alternate to only condi-
tioning the model on the target camera camt, while relying
on the model to interpret the camera trajectory of the input
video. Furthermore, we condition the model using camera
extrinsics, specifically the rotation and translation matrices
for each frame’s camera. We chose not to include camera
intrinsics as a condition because, while they are easily ob-
tainable in the rendered training set, accurately estimating
the intrinsics of real-world video cameras remains challeng-
ing. This limitation would complicate parameter provision
in practical applications, as users are unlikely to have ac-
cess to the source video’s camera intrinsics. However, our
method can be readily adapted to incorporate intrinsics as
input with minimal modifications.
Given a f frames target camera sequence camt
∈
Rf×(3×4), we project it to have the same channels with the
video tokens through a learnable camera encoder Ec and add
it to the visual features:
  F _i  = F_o + \mathcal {E}_c(\texttt {cam}_t), 
(9)
where Fo is the output feature of the spatial-attention layer,
Fi is the input feature of the 3D-attention layer, Ec is in-
stantiated as a fully connected layer with an input dimen-
sion of 12 and an output dimension of d in practice. The
camera encoder is inserted into each transformer block for
fine-grained camera control.
4.4. Training Strategy
Enhancing Generalization Capabilities.
Using the an-
notated dataset described in Sec. 3, ReCamMaster is trained
to process input videos with target camera parameters. To
preserve the base T2V model’s native capability, we fine-
tune only the camera encoder and 3D-attention layers while
keeping other parameters frozen. To mitigate Unreal En-
gine’s synthetic characteristics, we apply moderate noise
(200-500 noise scheduling steps) to the conditional video
latent during training, reducing the domain gap between
synthetic and real-world data at inference.
Improving Generation Capability by Unifying Camera
Control Tasks.
To encourage content generation capa-
bility, we implement T2V camera-controlled generation
[18, 51] with a 20% probability and I2V camera-controlled
generation [57] with a 20% probability during training.
Specifically, we replace the latent representations of all f
frames with Gaussian noise for T2V generation, and re-
place f −1 frames starting from the second frame for I2V
generation. Our experiments demonstrate that this strategy
prompts performance in synthesizing coherent objects in-
visible in the source video.
As a byproduct, our model


--- PAGE 6 ---
Source
Video
GCD
Trajectory
Attention
DaS
Ours
A man and a 'luffy dog share a tender moment in an open 'ield under a cloudy sky. A young man dressed as Spider-Man sitting on a ledge overlooking a cityscape.
Source
Video
GCD
Trajectory
Attention
DaS
Ours
Figure 4. Comparison with state-of-the-art methods. It shows that ReCamMaster generates videos that maintain appearance consistency
and temporal synchronization with the source video.
inherently supports T2V, I2V, and V2V camera-controlled
generation, as shown in Fig. 9.
5. Experimental Results
5.1. Experiment Settings
Implementation Details. We train ReCamMaster on the
rendered dataset introduced in Sec. 3. During training, we
randomly select 2 cameras from each 10 synchronized cam-
eras, designating one as the source video and the other as
the target video. We use {source video Vs, target camera
camt, target prompt pt} as conditions input to the model, to
reconstruct the target video Vt as introduced in Eq. 3. We
train the model for 10K steps at the resolution of 384x672
with a learning rate of 0.0001, batch size 40. The camera
encoder and the projector are zero-initialized.
Evaluation Metrics.
We mainly evaluate the proposed
method in terms of camera accuracy, source-target synchro-
nization, and visual quality. For camera accuracy, we use
GLOMAP [36] to extract the camera pose sequence of the
generated videos, and calculate the rotation error and trans-
lation error, denoted as RotErr and TransErr respectively
[18]. In terms of synchronization, we utilize the state-of-
the-art image matching method GIM [41] to calculate the
number of matching pixels with confidence greater than the
threshold, denoted as Mat. Pix.. Furthermore, we calculate
the FVD-V score in SV4D [55], and the average CLIP sim-
ilarity between source and target frames at the same times-
tamp, denoted as CLIP-V [28]. For visual quality, we di-
vide it into fidelity, coherence with text, and temporal con-
sistency, and quantify them with Fr´echet Image Distance
[19] (FID) and Fr´echet Video Distance [44] (FVD), CLIP-
T, and CLIP-F, respectively. CLIP-T refers to the average
CLIP [38] similarity of each frame and its corresponding
text prompt, and CLIP-F is the average CLIP similarity of
adjacent frames. We also evaluate our method on the widely
used VBench [23] metrics.
Evaluation Set. We construct the evaluation set with 1000
random videos from WebVid [4] and 10 different camera
trajectories, including pan, tilt, vertical translation, zoom
in, zoom out, and horizontal arc trajectories. Note that since
we automatically generated 122K different camera trajecto-
ries when constructing the training set, ReCamMaster can
support a variety of camera trajectories as input. However,
since the baseline method was trained on specific basic tra-
jectories, we opted to use trajectories that closely align with
the baseline for comparison.
5.2. Comparison with State-of-the-Art Methods
Baselines.
We compare the proposed ReCamMaster with
state-of-the-art camera-controlled video-to-video genera-
tion methods [15, 45, 54]. GCD [45] pioneered camera-
controlled video-to-video generation by training a video
generation model with paired data created by the Kubric
simulator [14]. Although it performs well on in-domain
data, GCD’s generalization capability is limited by its in-
ferior video conditioning method and the significant do-
main gap between the training data and real-world videos.
Trajectory-Attention [54] and DaS [15] extract dynamic in-
formation from the source video using 3D point tracking
and incorporate it as a condition into the video generator.


--- PAGE 7 ---
Table 1. Quantitative comparison with state-of-the-art methods on visual quality, camera accuracy, and view synchronization.
Method
Visual Quality
Camera Accuracy
View Synchronization
FID ↓FVD ↓CLIP-T ↑CLIP-F ↑RotErr ↓TransErr ↓Mat. Pix.(K) ↑FVD-V ↓CLIP-V ↑
GCD
72.83 367.32
32.86
95.66
2.27
5.51
639.39
365.75
85.92
Trajectory-Attention 69.21 276.06
33.43
96.52
2.18
5.32
619.13
256.30
88.65
DaS
63.25 159.60
33.05
98.32
1.45
5.59
633.53
154.25
87.33
ReCamMaster
57.10 122.74
34.53
98.74
1.22
4.85
906.03
90.38
90.36
Table 2. Quantitative comparison with state-of-the-art methods on VBench [23] metrics.
Method
Aesthetic
Quality ↑
Imaging
Quality ↑
Temporal
Flickering ↑
Motion
Smoothness ↑
Subject
Consistency ↑
Background
Consistency ↑
GCD
38.21
41.56
95.81
98.37
88.94
92.00
Trajectory-Attention
38.50
51.00
95.52
98.21
90.60
92.83
DaS
39.86
51.55
97.44
99.14
90.34
92.03
ReCamMaster
42.70
53.97
97.36
99.28
92.05
93.83
Qualitative Results.
We present synthesized examples of
ReCamMaster in Fig. 1 (additional examples in Fig. 12 of
Appendix C). Please visit our project page for more videos.
ReCamMaster demonstrates the ability to: 1) generate con-
sistent content from novel camera trajectories of the same
scene; 2) achieve excellent temporal synchronization with
the source video; and 3) generate plausible video content
in areas not visible in the original video. Note that, due to
the use of 122K different random trajectories during train-
ing, ReCamMaster also supports complex trajectories as in-
put, such as zigzag paths. Please refer to the results on the
project page. In the paper, to visually capture the camera
movement trajectory more clearly, we do not showcase re-
sults generated along complex trajectories.
We compare ReCamMaster with state-of-the-art meth-
ods in Fig. 4 and Fig. 13. It’s observed that baselines
produce content with notable artifacts and temporal desyn-
chronization. Similar phenomena were noted when training
ReCamMaster with other video conditioning techniques (as
shown in Fig. 5), highlighting the importance of the novel
video conditioning method proposed in the paper.
Quantitative Results.
We quantitatively evaluate Re-
CamMaster against baselines using various automatic met-
rics, the summarized results are in Tab. 1 and 2. For vi-
sual quality assessment, we used the widely adopted FID,
FVD, and CLIP metrics as shown in Tab. 1, along with the
VBench metrics in Tab. 2. In terms of camera trajectory
accuracy, we calculate the rotation error and translation er-
ror by following previous work in camera-controlled T2V
and I2V generation [18, 57]. For view synchronization, we
calculate the clip similarity score and FVD between video
frames of different viewpoints within one scene, denoted as
CLIP-V and FVD-V. It’s observed that ReCamMaster out-
performs baselines across multiple dimensions of metrics.
Source
Video
Channel
Concat. 
View
Concat. 
Frame
Concat. (ours)
Figure 5. Ablation on video conditioning techniques. We com-
pared the channel-/view- concatenation schemes proposed by pre-
vious methods and frame-concatenation in ReCamMaster.
We
observed that both channel-conditioning and view-conditioning
schemes suffer from significant artifacts, content inconsistency,
and asynchronous dynamics with respect to the original video.
5.3. More Analysis and Ablation Studies
Ablation on Video Conditioning Techniques.
In Sec.
4.2, we introduce a novel video conditioning scheme that
concatenates the tokens of a source video with the target
video tokens along the frame dimension. To verify its effec-
tiveness, we compare our “frame concatenation” technique
with the “channel concatenation” used in baseline methods
[5, 45] and the “view concatenation” in [3]. We performed
both qualitative and quantitative comparisons, as shown in
Fig. 5 and Tab. 3. We only altered the video conditioning
method while keeping the camera injection method, training
data, and training steps unchanged. The results clearly show
that our conditioning technique significantly enhances the
model’s performance. In the second and third rows of Fig.
5, the generated videos exhibit the rendering style of the


--- PAGE 8 ---
Table 3. Quantitative comparison on the video conditioning strategy.
Method
Visual Quality
Camera Accuracy
View Synchronization
FID ↓FVD ↓CLIP-T ↑CLIP-F ↑RotErr ↓TransErr ↓Mat. Pix.(K) ↑FVD-V ↓CLIP-V ↑
Channel dim.
74.09 187.94
33.70
98.67
1.28
4.98
521.10
148.51
84.62
View dim.
80.51 194.47
34.66
98.71
1.42
5.77
573.92
177.68
83.40
Frame dim. (ours) 57.10 122.74
34.53
98.74
1.22
4.85
906.03
90.38
90.36
Table 4. Ablation on our training strategies.
Method
FID ↓
FVD ↓
Aesthetic
Quality ↑
Imaging
Quality ↑
Baseline
66.67
171.80
40.02
51.93
+ Add noise
65.17
164.04
40.36
52.22
+ 3D-Attn. tuning
59.47
132.58
43.08
52.80
+ Drop latent
62.39
149.52
41.47
52.65
+ All
57.10
122.74
42.70
53.97
training dataset, and the hand movements become unsyn-
chronized with the original video. In contrast, our method
preserves the person’s identity and maintains synchroniza-
tion even during rapid and complex movements.
The Effectiveness of the Training Strategies.
In Section
4.4, we enhance ReCamMaster’s robustness with improved
training strategies. We fine-tune only the spatial-temporal
(3D) attention layers and freeze other parameters. Addi-
tionally, we drop f frames and f −1 frames of the source
video with a 20% probability to improve generation capa-
bility. Table 4 shows the improvement using visual quality
metrics. The ‘baseline’ is vanilla training with reconstruc-
tion loss. Results indicate that all techniques improve vi-
sual quality, with their combination yielding the best per-
formance. Dropping the source latent during training also
allows our method to support camera-controlled T2V, I2V,
and V2V generation simultaneously, as shown in Fig. 9.
6. Applications of ReCamMaster
We find that ReCamMaster also has promising perfor-
mances in several traditional tasks, as shown in Fig. 6.
Video Stabilization. It is usually not easy to obtain sta-
ble videos when recording video while moving.
Video
stabilization techniques [50] aim to smooth out camera
movements to produce easy-to-watch videos, which can be
achieved by adjusting the camera trajectories via ReCam-
Master.
We evaluate our method using unsteady videos
from the DeepStab [47] dataset. It can be observed that
the model stabilizes the video while preserving the content
from the original video. Best viewed on the project page.
Video Super-Resolution.1 Thanks to the generation capa-
bility of the diffusion model, we can input ‘zoom-in’ cam-
era trajectories into ReCamMaster to achieve video local
super-resolution, as more details are observed in Fig. 6.
1It’s not entirely equivalent to the super-resolution task, as ReCamMas-
ter only enhances the resolution of patches in the central region.
Source
Video
Video 
Stabilization
Source
Video
Video Super-
Resolution
Source
Video
Video 
Outpainting
Figure 6. Applications of ReCamMaster. From top to bottom:
video stabilization, video super-resolution, and video outpainting.
Video Outpainting. Similarly, we can input zoom-out tra-
jectories to achieve video outpainting. As shown in the last
row of Fig. 6 that areas not visible in the original video,
such as feet and the ground, have been generated.
7. Conclusion and Limitations
In this paper, we propose ReCamMaster to reproduce dy-
namic scenes from input videos with new camera trajec-
tories. We develop an innovative video conditioning tech-
nique to enhance pre-trained text-to-video models and cu-
rate a large-scale multi-camera synchronized video dataset
using Unreal Engine 5, covering diverse scenes and camera
movements. Our method also shows promise in video stabi-
lization, super-resolution, and outpainting. There are nev-
ertheless some limitations. Concatenating source and tar-
get video tokens improves generation quality but increases
computational demands. Additionally, ReCamMaster in-
herits limitations from the pre-trained T2V models, such as
less effective hand generation, as shown in Fig. 11.


--- PAGE 9 ---
Acknowledgments
We thank Jinwen Cao, Yisong Guo, Haowen Ji, Jichao
Wang, and Yi Wang from Kuaishou Technology for their in-
valuable help in constructing the multi-view video dataset.
Jianhong Bai would like to thank Quande Liu and Xiaoyu
Shi for fruitful discussions. We thank Qinghe Wang and
Yawen Luo for their help in method evaluation.
References
[1] Sherwin Bahmani, Ivan Skorokhodov, Guocheng Qian, Ali-
aksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Andrea Tagliasacchi,
David B Lindell, and Sergey Tulyakov. Ac3d: Analyzing
and improving 3d camera control in video diffusion trans-
formers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.18673, 2024.
[2] Sherwin Bahmani, Ivan Skorokhodov, Aliaksandr Siaro-
hin, Willi Menapace, Guocheng Qian, Michael Vasilkovsky,
Hsin-Ying Lee,
Chaoyang Wang,
Jiaxu Zou,
Andrea
Tagliasacchi, et al.
Vd3d:
Taming large video diffu-
sion transformers for 3d camera control.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.12781, 2024.
[3] Jianhong Bai, Menghan Xia, Xintao Wang, Ziyang Yuan,
Xiao Fu, Zuozhu Liu, Haoji Hu, Pengfei Wan, and
Di Zhang.
Syncammaster:
Synchronizing multi-camera
video generation from diverse viewpoints.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.07760, 2024.
[4] Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, G¨ul Varol, and Andrew Zisser-
man. Frozen in time: A joint video and image encoder for
end-to-end retrieval. In IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision, 2021.
[5] Weikang Bian, Zhaoyang Huang, Xiaoyu Shi, Yijin Li, Fu-
Yun Wang, and Hongsheng Li.
Gs-dit: Advancing video
generation with pseudo 4d gaussian fields through efficient
dense 3d point tracking. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.02690,
2025.
[6] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel
Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi,
Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video
diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large
datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023.
[7] Haoxin Chen, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Menghan Xia,
Xintao Wang, Chao Weng, and Ying Shan. Videocrafter2:
Overcoming data limitations for high-quality video diffu-
sion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 7310–
7320, 2024.
[8] Qihua Chen, Yue Ma, Hongfa Wang, Junkun Yuan, Wenzhe
Zhao, Qi Tian, Hongmei Wang, Shaobo Min, Qifeng Chen,
and Wei Liu. Follow-your-canvas: Higher-resolution video
outpainting with extensive content generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.01055, 2024.
[9] Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim
Entezari, Jonas M¨uller, Harry Saini, Yam Levi, Dominik
Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Dustin Podell, Tim
Dockhorn, Zion English, and Robin Rombach. Scaling rec-
tified flow transformers for high-resolution image synthesis.
In International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML),
2024.
[10] Weijie Kong et. al. Hunyuanvideo: A systematic framework
for large video generative models, 2024.
[11] Xiao Fu, Xian Liu, Xintao Wang, Sida Peng, Menghan
Xia, Xiaoyu Shi, Ziyang Yuan, Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang,
and Dahua Lin. 3dtrajmaster: Mastering 3d trajectory for
multi-entity motion in video generation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.07759, 2024.
[12] Epic Games.
Unreal engine 5.
https : / / www .
unrealengine.com/en-US/unreal-engine-5,
2022.
[13] Kristen Grauman, Andrew Westbury, Lorenzo Torresani,
Kris Kitani, Jitendra Malik, Triantafyllos Afouras, Kumar
Ashutosh, Vijay Baiyya, Siddhant Bansal, Bikram Boote,
et al.
Ego-exo4d: Understanding skilled human activity
from first-and third-person perspectives. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 19383–19400, 2024.
[14] Klaus Greff, Francois Belletti, Lucas Beyer, Carl Doersch,
Yilun Du, Daniel Duckworth, David J Fleet, Dan Gnanapra-
gasam, Florian Golemo, Charles Herrmann, Thomas Kipf,
Abhijit Kundu, Dmitry Lagun, Issam Laradji, Hsueh-
Ti (Derek) Liu, Henning Meyer, Yishu Miao, Derek
Nowrouzezahrai, Cengiz Oztireli, Etienne Pot, Noha Rad-
wan, Daniel Rebain, Sara Sabour, Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi,
Matan Sela, Vincent Sitzmann, Austin Stone, Deqing Sun,
Suhani Vora, Ziyu Wang, Tianhao Wu, Kwang Moo Yi,
Fangcheng Zhong, and Andrea Tagliasacchi. Kubric: a scal-
able dataset generator. 2022.
[15] Zekai Gu, Rui Yan, Jiahao Lu, Peng Li, Zhiyang Dou,
Chenyang Si, Zhen Dong, Qifeng Liu, Cheng Lin, Ziwei
Liu, et al.
Diffusion as shader:
3d-aware video diffu-
sion for versatile video generation control. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.03847, 2025.
[16] Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Maneesh Agrawala,
Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai.
Sparsectrl: Adding sparse con-
trols to text-to-video diffusion models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.16933, 2023.
[17] Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Zhengyang Liang,
Yaohui Wang, Yu Qiao, Maneesh Agrawala, Dahua Lin,
and Bo Dai. Animatediff: Animate your personalized text-
to-image diffusion models without specific tuning.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.04725, 2023.
[18] Hao He, Yinghao Xu, Yuwei Guo, Gordon Wetzstein, Bo
Dai, Hongsheng Li, and Ceyuan Yang. Cameractrl: Enabling
camera control for text-to-video generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02101, 2024.
[19] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner,
Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a
two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilib-
rium. Advances in neural information processing systems,
30, 2017.
[20] Chen Hou, Guoqiang Wei, Yan Zeng, and Zhibo Chen.
Training-free camera control for video generation.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.10126, 2024.
[21] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-
Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen.
Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2106.09685, 2021.


--- PAGE 10 ---
[22] Teng Hu, Jiangning Zhang, Ran Yi, Yating Wang, Hongrui
Huang, Jieyu Weng, Yabiao Wang, and Lizhuang Ma. Mo-
tionmaster: Training-free camera motion transfer for video
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.15789, 2024.
[23] Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si,
Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianxing Wu, Qingyang Jin,
Nattapol Chanpaisit, et al. Vbench: Comprehensive bench-
mark suite for video generative models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 21807–21818, 2024.
[24] Catalin Ionescu, Dragos Papava, Vlad Olaru, and Cristian
Sminchisescu. Human3. 6m: Large scale datasets and pre-
dictive methods for 3d human sensing in natural environ-
ments. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence, 36(7):1325–1339, 2013.
[25] Hanbyul Joo, Hao Liu, Lei Tan, Lin Gui, Bart Nabbe,
Iain Matthews, Takeo Kanade, Shohei Nobuhara, and Yaser
Sheikh. Panoptic studio: A massively multiview system for
social motion capture.
In Proceedings of the IEEE inter-
national conference on computer vision, pages 3334–3342,
2015.
[26] Nikita Karaev, Ignacio Rocco, Benjamin Graham, Natalia
Neverova, Andrea Vedaldi, and Christian Rupprecht. Co-
tracker: It is better to track together. In European Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 18–35. Springer, 2024.
[27] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-
tional bayes. In International Conference on Learning Rep-
resentations (ICLR), 2014.
[28] Zhengfei Kuang, Shengqu Cai, Hao He, Yinghao Xu, Hong-
sheng Li, Leonidas Guibas, and Gordon Wetzstein.
Col-
laborative video diffusion: Consistent multi-video genera-
tion with camera control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.17414,
2024.
[29] Zhengqi Li, Richard Tucker, Forrester Cole, Qianqian Wang,
Linyi Jin, Vickie Ye, Angjoo Kanazawa, Aleksander Holyn-
ski, and Noah Snavely. Megasam: Accurate, fast, and ro-
bust structure and motion from casual dynamic videos. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.04463, 2024.
[30] Pengyang Ling, Jiazi Bu, Pan Zhang, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang
Zang, Tong Wu, Huaian Chen, Jiaqi Wang, and Yi Jin.
Motionclone: Training-free motion cloning for controllable
video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.05338, 2024.
[31] Yaron Lipman, Ricky T. Q. Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maxim-
ilian Nickel, and Matthew Le. Flow matching for generative
modeling. In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations (ICLR), 2023.
[32] Fangfu Liu, Wenqiang Sun, Hanyang Wang, Yikai Wang,
Haowen Sun, Junliang Ye, Jun Zhang, and Yueqi Duan. Re-
conx: Reconstruct any scene from sparse views with video
diffusion model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16767, 2024.
[33] Shaoteng Liu, Yuechen Zhang, Wenbo Li, Zhe Lin, and Jiaya
Jia. Video-p2p: Video editing with cross-attention control.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 8599–8608, 2024.
[34] Arun Mallya, Ting-Chun Wang, Karan Sapra, and Ming-Yu
Liu. World-consistent video-to-video synthesis. In Computer
Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow,
UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part VIII 16, pages
359–378. Springer, 2020.
[35] Willi Menapace, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Ivan Skorokhodov,
Ekaterina Deyneka, Tsai-Shien Chen, Anil Kag, Yuwei
Fang, Aleksei Stoliar, Elisa Ricci, Jian Ren, et al.
Snap
video: Scaled spatiotemporal transformers for text-to-video
synthesis.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 7038–
7048, 2024.
[36] Linfei Pan, D´aniel Bar´ath, Marc Pollefeys, and Johannes L
Sch¨onberger.
Global structure-from-motion revisited.
In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 58–77.
Springer, 2024.
[37] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models
with transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision, pages 4195–4205,
2023.
[38] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervi-
sion. In International conference on machine learning, pages
8748–8763. PMLR, 2021.
[39] Xuanchi Ren, Tianchang Shen, Jiahui Huang, Huan Ling,
Yifan Lu, Merlin Nimier-David, Thomas M¨uller, Alexan-
der Keller, Sanja Fidler, and Jun Gao. Gen3c: 3d-informed
world-consistent video generation with precise camera con-
trol. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2025.
[40] Amir Shahroudy, Jun Liu, Tian-Tsong Ng, and Gang Wang.
Ntu rgb+ d: A large scale dataset for 3d human activity anal-
ysis. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 1010–1019, 2016.
[41] Xuelun Shen, Zhipeng Cai, Wei Yin, Matthias M¨uller, Zijun
Li, Kaixuan Wang, Xiaozhi Chen, and Cheng Wang. Gim:
Learning generalizable image matcher from internet videos.
In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, 2024.
[42] Wenqiang Sun, Shuo Chen, Fangfu Liu, Zilong Chen, Yueqi
Duan, Jun Zhang, and Yikai Wang. Dimensionx: Create any
3d and 4d scenes from a single image with controllable video
diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04928, 2024.
[43] Zhenxiong Tan, Songhua Liu, Xingyi Yang, Qiaochu Xue,
and Xinchao Wang.
Ominicontrol:
Minimal and uni-
versal control for diffusion transformer.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.15098, 2024.
[44] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach,
Rapha¨el Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly.
Fvd: A new metric for video generation. Openreview, 2019.
[45] Basile Van Hoorick, Rundi Wu, Ege Ozguroglu, Kyle Sar-
gent, Ruoshi Liu, Pavel Tokmakov, Achal Dave, Changxi
Zheng, and Carl Vondrick. Generative camera dolly: Ex-
treme monocular dynamic novel view synthesis.
In Eu-
ropean Conference on Computer Vision, pages 313–331.
Springer, 2024.
[46] Fu-Yun Wang, Xiaoshi Wu, Zhaoyang Huang, Xiaoyu Shi,
Dazhong Shen, Guanglu Song, Yu Liu, and Hongsheng Li.


--- PAGE 11 ---
Be-your-outpainter: Mastering video outpainting through
input-specific adaptation. In European Conference on Com-
puter Vision, pages 153–168. Springer, 2024.
[47] Miao Wang, Guo-Ye Yang, Jin-Kun Lin, Song-Hai Zhang,
Ariel Shamir, Shao-Ping Lu, and Shi-Min Hu. Deep online
video stabilization with multi-grid warping transformation
learning. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 28(5):
2283–2292, 2018.
[48] Ting-Chun Wang, Ming-Yu Liu, Jun-Yan Zhu, Guilin Liu,
Andrew Tao, Jan Kautz, and Bryan Catanzaro.
Video-to-
video synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.06601, 2018.
[49] Ting-Chun Wang, Ming-Yu Liu, Andrew Tao, Guilin Liu,
Jan Kautz, and Bryan Catanzaro. Few-shot video-to-video
synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.12713, 2019.
[50] Yiming Wang, Qian Huang, Chuanxu Jiang, Jiwen Liu,
Mingzhou Shang, and Zhuang Miao.
Video stabilization:
A comprehensive survey.
Neurocomputing, 516:205–230,
2023.
[51] Zhouxia Wang, Ziyang Yuan, Xintao Wang, Yaowei Li,
Tianshui Chen, Menghan Xia, Ping Luo, and Ying Shan.
Motionctrl: A unified and flexible motion controller for
video generation. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Pa-
pers, pages 1–11, 2024.
[52] Rundi Wu, Ruiqi Gao, Ben Poole, Alex Trevithick, Changxi
Zheng, Jonathan T Barron, and Aleksander Holynski. Cat4d:
Create anything in 4d with multi-view video diffusion mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.18613, 2024.
[53] Yuxi Xiao, Qianqian Wang, Shangzhan Zhang, Nan Xue,
Sida Peng, Yujun Shen, and Xiaowei Zhou. Spatialtracker:
Tracking any 2d pixels in 3d space.
In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 20406–20417, 2024.
[54] Zeqi Xiao, Wenqi Ouyang, Yifan Zhou, Shuai Yang, Lei
Yang, Jianlou Si, and Xingang Pan. Trajectory attention for
fine-grained video motion control. In The Thirteenth Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
[55] Yiming Xie, Chun-Han Yao, Vikram Voleti, Huaizu Jiang,
and Varun Jampani. Sv4d: Dynamic 3d content generation
with multi-frame and multi-view consistency. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.17470, 2024.
[56] Jinbo Xing, Menghan Xia, Yuxin Liu, Yuechen Zhang,
Yong Zhang, Yingqing He, Hanyuan Liu, Haoxin Chen, Xi-
aodong Cun, Xintao Wang, et al. Make-your-video: Cus-
tomized video generation using textual and structural guid-
ance.
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer
Graphics, 2024.
[57] Dejia Xu, Weili Nie, Chao Liu, Sifei Liu, Jan Kautz,
Zhangyang Wang, and Arash Vahdat.
Camco: Camera-
controllable 3d-consistent image-to-video generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.02509, 2024.
[58] Yiran Xu, Taesung Park, Richard Zhang, Yang Zhou, Eli
Shechtman, Feng Liu, Jia-Bin Huang, and Difan Liu.
Videogigagan: Towards detail-rich video super-resolution.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.12388, 2024.
[59] Zhen Xu, Yinghao Xu, Zhiyuan Yu, Sida Peng, Jiaming Sun,
Hujun Bao, and Xiaowei Zhou. Representing long volumet-
ric video with temporal gaussian hierarchy. ACM Transac-
tions on Graphics, 43(6), 2024.
[60] Shuai Yang, Yifan Zhou, Ziwei Liu, and Chen Change
Loy. Rerender a video: Zero-shot text-guided video-to-video
translation. In SIGGRAPH Asia 2023 Conference Papers,
pages 1–11, 2023.
[61] Shiyuan Yang, Liang Hou, Haibin Huang, Chongyang Ma,
Pengfei Wan, Di Zhang, Xiaodong Chen, and Jing Liao.
Direct-a-video:
Customized video generation with user-
directed camera movement and object motion. In ACM SIG-
GRAPH 2024 Conference Papers, pages 1–12, 2024.
[62] Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu
Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiao-
han Zhang, Guanyu Feng, et al. Cogvideox: Text-to-video
diffusion models with an expert transformer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.06072, 2024.
[63] Shengming Yin, Chenfei Wu, Jian Liang, Jie Shi, Houqiang
Li, Gong Ming, and Nan Duan. Dragnuwa: Fine-grained
control in video generation by integrating text, image, and
trajectory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08089, 2023.
[64] Mark YU, Wenbo Hu, Jinbo Xing, and Ying Shan.
Tra-
jectorycrafter:
Redirecting camera trajectory for monoc-
ular
videos
via
diffusion
models.
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:2503.05638, 2025.
[65] David Junhao Zhang, Roni Paiss, Shiran Zada, Nikhil Kar-
nad, David E Jacobs, Yael Pritch, Inbar Mosseri, Mike Zheng
Shou, Neal Wadhwa, and Nataniel Ruiz. Recapture: Gener-
ative video camera controls for user-provided videos using
masked video fine-tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.05003,
2024.
[66] Junyi Zhang, Charles Herrmann, Junhwa Hur, Varun Jam-
pani, Trevor Darrell, Forrester Cole, Deqing Sun, and Ming-
Hsuan Yang.
Monst3r: A simple approach for estimat-
ing geometry in the presence of motion.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.03825, 2024.
[67] Guangcong Zheng, Teng Li, Rui Jiang, Yehao Lu, Tao Wu,
and Xi Li. Cami2v: Camera-controlled image-to-video dif-
fusion model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.15957, 2024.
[68] Sixiao Zheng, Zimian Peng, Yanpeng Zhou, Yi Zhu, Hang
Xu, Xiangru Huang, and Yanwei Fu. Vidcraft3: Camera,
object, and lighting control for image-to-video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.07531, 2025.
[69] Shangchen Zhou, Peiqing Yang, Jianyi Wang, Yihang
Luo, and Chen Change Loy. Upscale-a-video: Temporal-
consistent diffusion model for real-world video super-
resolution.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 2535–
2545, 2024.


--- PAGE 12 ---
ReCamMaster: Camera-Controlled Generative Rendering from A Single Video
Supplementary Material
A. Introduction of the Base Text-to-Video Gen-
eration Model
We use a transformer-based latent diffusion model [37] as
the base T2V generation model, as illustrated in Fig. 7. We
employ a 3D-VAE to transform videos from the pixel space
to a latent space, upon which we construct a transformer-
based video diffusion model. Unlike previous models that
rely on UNets or transformers, which typically incorporate
an additional 1D temporal attention module for video gen-
eration, such spatially-temporally separated designs do not
yield optimal results. We replace the 1D temporal attention
with 3D self-attention, enabling the model to effectively
perceive and process spatiotemporal tokens, thereby achiev-
ing a high-quality and coherent video generation model.
Specifically, before each attention or feed-forward network
(FFN) module, we map the timestep to a scale, thereby ap-
plying RMSNorm to the spatiotemporal tokens.
B. Details of Data Construction
In this section, we provide a detailed description of the ren-
dered dataset used to train ReCamMaster.
3D Environments
We collect 40 different 3D environ-
ments assets from https://www.fab.com/. To mini-
mize the domain gap between rendered data and real-world
videos, we primarily select visually realistic 3D scenes,
while choosing a few stylized or surreal 3D scenes as a sup-
plement. To ensure data diversity, the selected scenes cover
a variety of indoor and outdoor settings, such as city streets,
shopping malls, cafes, office rooms, and the countryside.
Characters
We collected 70 different human 3D mod-
els as characters from https://www.fab.com/ and
https://www.mixamo.com/#/, including realistic,
anime, and game-style characters.
Animations
We collected approximately 100 differ-
ent animations from https://www.fab.com/ and
https://www.mixamo.com/#/, including common
actions such as waving, dancing, and cheering. We used
these animations to drive the collected characters and cre-
ated diverse datasets through various combinations.
Camera Trajectories
Due to the wide variety of camera
movements, amplitudes, shooting angles, and camera pa-
rameters in real-world videos, we need to create as diverse
camera trajectories and parameters as possible to cover var-
ious situations. To achieve this, we designed some rules to
batch-generate random camera starting positions and move-
ment trajectories:
1. Camera Starting Position.
We take the character’s position as the center of a hemi-
sphere with a radius of 10m and randomly sample within
this range as the camera’s starting point, ensuring the clos-
est distance to the character is greater than 0.5m and the
pitch angle is within 45 degrees.
2. Camera Trajectories.
• Pan & Tilt: The camera rotation angles are randomly
selected within the range, with pan angles ranging from 5
to 60 degrees and tilt angles ranging from 5 to 45 degrees,
with directions randomly chosen left/right or up/down.
• Basic Translation: The camera translates along the pos-
itive and negative directions of the xyz axes, with move-
ment distances randomly selected within the range of
[ 1
4, 1] × distance2character.
• Basic Arc Trajectory: The camera moves along an arc,
with rotation angles randomly selected within the range
of 5 to 60 degrees.
• Random Trajectories: 1-3 points are sampled in space,
and the camera moves from the initial position through
these points as the movement trajectory, with the total
movement distance randomly selected within the range
of [ 1
4, 1] × distance2character. The polyline is smoothed
to make the movement more natural.
• Static Camera: The camera does not translate or rotate
during shooting, maintaining a fixed position.
3. Camera Movement Speed.
To further enhance the richness of trajectories and im-
prove our model’s generalization ability, 50% of the train-
ing data uses constant-speed camera trajectories, while the
other 50% uses variable-speed trajectories generated by
nonlinear functions. Consider a camera trajectory with a
total of f frames, starting at location Lstart and ending at
position Lend. The location at the i-th frame is given by:
  L _i = L _ {star t } + (L_ {
en d } - L_ { star
t } ) \cdot
 
\left ( \frac {1 - \exp (-a \cdot i/f)}{1 - \exp (-a)} \right ), 
(10)
where a is an adjustable parameter to control the trajectory
speed.
When a > 0, the trajectory starts fast and then
slows down; when a < 0, the trajectory starts slow and
then speeds up. The larger the absolute value of a, the more
drastic the change.
4. Camera Parameters.
We chose two sets of commonly used camera param-
eters: focal=35mm, aperture=2.8, and focal=24mm, aper-
ture=10.


--- PAGE 13 ---
Figure 7. Overview of the base text-to-video generation model.
Figure 8. Rendered multi-camera synchronized dataset.
Table 5. Ablation study on training data construction.
Dataset
Visual Quality
Camera Accuracy
View Synchronization
FID ↓FVD ↓CLIP-T ↑CLIP-F ↑RotErr ↓TransErr ↓Mat. Pix.(K) ↑FVD-V ↓CLIP-V ↑
Toy Data
69.35 179.22
34.28
98.77
1.98
5.24
862.59
89.58
89.70
High-Quality Data 57.10 122.74
34.53
98.74
1.22
4.85
906.03
90.38
90.36


--- PAGE 14 ---
Source Video
Text-to-Video
Image-to-Video
Video-to-Video
A couple is dancing in a luxurious ballroom filled with elegantly dressed guests.
Figure 9. Unify camera-controlled tasks with ReCamMaster. Re-
CamMaster supports T2V, I2V, and V2V camera-controlled gen-
eration.
C. More Results
C.1. Ablation on Dataset Construction
In our experiments, we find that constructing a diverse
training dataset that closely resembles the distribution of
real-world videos significantly enhances the model’s gen-
eralization ability. To demonstrate this, we quantitatively
compared the model performance trained on the “toy data”
constructed in the early stages of the experiment and the
“high-quality data” used in this paper. Specifically, the “toy
data” was constructed with 500 scenes in a single 3D en-
vironment, and we manually created 20 camera trajecto-
ries assigned to 5000 cameras.
As a result, this dataset
lacked diversity in terms of scenes and camera trajectories,
which limited the model’s generalization ability on in-the-
wild videos and novel camera trajectories. In contrast, the
“high-quality data” used in the paper contains 136K videos
shot from 13.6K different dynamic scenes in 40 3D environ-
ments with 122K different camera trajectories. We present
the results in Tab. 5. It is observed that the model shows sig-
nificant improvements in visual quality, camera accuracy,
and synchronization metrics.
C.2. More Results of ReCamMaster
More synthesized results of ReCamMaster are presented in
Fig. 12. Please visit our project page for more results. We
also showcase the ability of ReCamMaster to support T2V,
I2V, V2V camera-controlled tasks in Fig. 9.
C.3. More Comparison with SOTA Methods
Please refer to Fig. 13 for qualitative comparison with the
state-of-the-art methods.
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Figure 10. Results on non-overlapping first frames.
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Figure 11. Visualization of failure cases.
C.4. Results on Non-overlapping First Frames
In the main text, we assume that the first frame of the
generated video coincides with the first frame of the input
video when testing ReCamMaster. This means the gener-
ated video starts from the original video’s first frame. To
evaluate the method’s generalizability, we also rendered
27K ‘non-overlapping first-frame’ videos as training data
and tested whether the generated first frame could differ
from the original. Fig. 10 presents the qualitative results,
with the leftmost column showing the first frame. It is evi-
dent that the model generalizes well to non-overlapping first
frames, enabling re-filming from a completely new perspec-
tive, thus demonstrating the method’s generalizability.
C.5. Failure Cases Visualization
We present the failure cases in Fig. 11. Since our model is
built upon a text-to-video base model, we also inherit some
of the base model’s shortcomings. For instance, the gen-
erated hand movements of characters may exhibit inferior
quality, as shown in the first and second rows. Moreover,
generating very small objects sometimes results in failures,
as shown in the third and fourth rows.


--- PAGE 15 ---
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Source
Video
Synthesized 
Video
Figure 12. More synthesized results of ReCamMaster.


--- PAGE 16 ---
Source
Video
GCD
Trajectory
Attention
DaS
ReCamMaster
Source
Video
GCD
Trajectory
Attention
DaS
ReCamMaster
Two men are engaged in a tense and focused activity in a dimly lit room with a long hallway.
A man in a black suit and a green shirt is standing in a kitchen, engaging in a conversation.
Figure 13. More comparison with state-of-the-art methods.
